README.md, before:

# Climate Org Directory & Scoring Dashboard

[![Built with Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Next.js-black?logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![Powered by Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-Supabase-green?logo=supabase)](https://supabase.com/)
[![Styled with Tailwind](https://img.shields.io/badge/Styled%20with-Tailwind%20CSS-blue?logo=tailwindcss)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
[![Status: In Development](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-deployed-green)](#)
[![AGPL v3 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL--3.0-blue)](LICENSE)

## Table of Contents

- [Description](#description)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Admin Dashboard](#admin-dashboard)
- [Scoring System](#scoring-system)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)
- [Questions](#questions)

---

## Description

A sophisticated platform to catalog, score, and assess grassroots climate organizations using a comprehensive 13-criteria rubric. Features an enterprise-grade admin dashboard with real-time validation, automated metadata fetching, and intelligent scoring recommendations. Built to support transparent, collective, and scalable climate action aligned with Music Declares Emergency.

---

## Features

### 🎯 **Core Functionality**
- **Organization Management** - Add, edit, approve/reject climate organizations with inline editing
- **Intelligent Scoring** - 13-criteria assessment with real-time recommendations and visual progress
- **Metadata Enrichment** - Automatic website favicon and metadata extraction with loading states
- **Advanced Filtering & Search** - Multi-criteria filtering, real-time search, and sorting capabilities
- **Responsive Glass Design** - Modern glass morphism UI optimized for all devices

### 🛡️ **Security & Validation**
- **Real-time Validation** - Field-level validation with visual feedback and error handling
- **Role-based Access Control** - JWT-based admin authentication with secure routing
- **Row Level Security** - Supabase RLS for comprehensive data protection
- **Input Sanitization** - Comprehensive data validation, formatting, and URL validation

### 🎨 **User Experience**
- **Glass Morphism Design** - Modern frosted glass aesthetic with backdrop blur effects
- **Smooth Animations** - CSS-based transitions and micro-interactions (Framer Motion deprecated)
- **Regional Theming** - Visual themes and colors based on organization location
- **Comprehensive Loading States** - Loading indicators, progress bars, and error handling
- **Accessibility** - ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support

---

## Tech Stack

### **Frontend**
- **Next.js** with App Router and Server Components
- **React** with TypeScript for type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** with custom glass morphism utilities
- **CSS Animations** - Custom CSS transitions and animations (Framer Motion removed)
- **Custom Hooks** - Specialized hooks for organizations, scoring, and metadata

### **Backend**
- **Supabase** - PostgreSQL database with real-time subscriptions
- **Row Level Security (RLS)** - Database-level security policies
- **Auth** - JWT-based authentication with custom claims
- **Edge Functions** - Serverless functions for metadata processing

### **Development**
- **TypeScript** - Full type safety across the application
- **ESLint & Prettier** - Code formatting and linting
- **Custom Hooks** - Reusable state management logic
- **Component Architecture** - Modular, testable components

---

## Architecture

The application follows a **clean architecture** pattern with clear separation of concerns:

```
project-root/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router
│   ├── admin/              # Admin dashboard page
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   └── page.tsx        # Admin dashboard component
│   ├── api/                # API routes and serverless functions
│   │   └── metadata/
│   │       └── route.ts
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── AddOrganizationModal/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── AdminHeader/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── CustomDropdown/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── Icons/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── OrganizationCard/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   └── ScoringSection/
│   │       └── index.tsx
│   ├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── useOrganizations.ts
│   │   ├── useScoring.ts
│   │   └── useWebsiteMetadata.ts
│   ├── login/              # Authentication pages
│   │   └── page.tsx        # Login page component
│   ├── utils/              # Logic utilities
│   │   ├── supabase/       # Supabase client configuration
│   │   │   ├── client.ts
│   │   │   ├── middleware.ts
│   │   │   └── server.ts
│   │   ├── motion.ts
│   │   ├── orgUtils.ts
│   │   ├── scoring.ts
│   │   ├── selectOptions.ts
│   │   └── validation.ts
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── globals.css         # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout component
│   └── page.tsx            # Homepage component
├── models/                 # TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── org.ts              # Organization interface
│   └── orgWithScore.ts     # Organization with scoring interface
├── public/                 # Static assets
├── .env                    # Environment variables
├── .gitignore
├── eslint.config.mjs
├── LICENSE
├── middleware.ts           # Supabase root middleware
├── next.config.ts
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── tailwind.config.js
└── tsconfig.json
```

### **App Router Structure Details**

**Directory Overview:**
- `app/` – Main Next.js application code (pages, components, hooks, utilities)
- `app/utils/` – Utility functions and Supabase client config
- `models/` – TypeScript interfaces and types
- `public/` – Static assets (images, favicon, etc.)
- `.env` – Environment variables (not committed)
- `middleware.ts` – Next.js middleware for Supabase

#### **Pages & Routes**
- **`/admin`** - Admin dashboard for organization management
- **`/login`** - Authentication page for admin access

#### **API Routes**
- **`/api/metadata/*`** - Website metadata extraction

#### **Component Architecture**
- **AddOrganizationModal** - Form modal with comprehensive validation and dropdown components
- **AdminHeader** - Header with compact layout, filters, search, and real-time stats
- **CustomDropdown** - Beautiful glass dropdown components with search and animations
- **Icons** - Custom SVG and Phosphor Icons
- **OrganizationCard** - Rich cards with glass effects, inline editing, and regional theming
- **ScoringSection** - Streamlined 13-criteria scoring interface with progress tracking

#### **Custom Hooks**
- **useOrganizations** - Organization CRUD and state management
- **useScoring** - Scoring logic and calculations
- **useWebsiteMetadata** - Automatic metadata fetching and caching

#### **Utility Functions**
- **supabase/client.ts** - Supabase client configuration for client-side usage
- **supabase/middleware.ts** - Supabase middleware utilities
- **supabase/server.ts** - Supabase client configuration for server-side usage
- **motion.ts** - Animation and motion utility functions
- **orgUtils.ts** - Regional theming, color logic, and URL validation
- **scoring.ts** - Scoring criteria and recommendation logic
- **selectOptions.ts** - Dropdown and select menu options
- **validation.ts** - Field validation with real-time feedback

### **Key Architectural Principles**
- **Single Responsibility** - Each component/hook has one clear purpose
- **Separation of Concerns** - Data, UI, and business logic are separated
- **Reusability** - Components can be used across different contexts
- **Type Safety** - Comprehensive TypeScript coverage
- **Performance** - Optimized re-renders and efficient state management

---

## Installation

> ⚠️ *Production-ready for private deployment*

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/gurleyryan/MDEDB.git
   cd MDEDB
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables:**
   Create a `.env` file with your Supabase credentials:
   ```env
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your-supabase-url
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
   ```

4. **Set up Supabase:**
   - Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com/).
   - Set up your tables, authentication, and Row Level Security (RLS) policies using the Supabase web dashboard.
   - Configure admin roles and enable real-time subscriptions as needed.
   - No SQL schema file is required—everything can be managed through the Supabase UI.

5. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Access the application:**
   - Admin dashboard: `http://localhost:3000/admin`
   - Login page: `http://localhost:3000/login`

### **Production Deployment**
- **Vercel** - Optimized for Next.js deployment
- **Supabase** - Database and authentication hosting
- **Environment Variables** - Secure credential management
- **Domain Configuration** - Custom domain setup

---

## Usage

### **Admin Interface**
- Manage organization submissions
- Assign scores using the 13-criteria rubric
- Approve, reject, or mark organizations as pending
- Real-time collaboration with other admins

> 🔐 **Admin Access**: Requires Supabase authentication with `admin` role in JWT custom claims.

---

## Admin Dashboard

The admin dashboard provides a comprehensive interface for managing climate organizations:

### **Key Features**

#### 📊 **Dashboard Overview**
- Real-time organization counts by status with color-coded badges
- Metadata loading progress with visual indicators
- Quick stats showing strong candidates (21+ score) and continent coverage
- Compact header design with optimized spacing

#### 🏢 **Organization Management**
- **Glass Card Layout** - Modern frosted glass cards with regional theming
- **Inline Editing** - Edit organization details with real-time validation and error feedback
- **Status Management** - Approve, reject, or set to pending with visual status indicators
- **Metadata Integration** - Automatic favicon extraction and website validation
- **Email Processing** - Smart email parsing and validation with multiple email support

#### 🎯 **Scoring Interface**
- **Streamlined 13-Criteria Assessment** - Clean, focused scoring interface
- **Visual Progress Tracking** - Progress bars and completion indicators
- **Smart Recommendations** - Color-coded recommendations based on total scores
- **Comments System** - Detailed notes with character limits and formatting
- **Score Summary** - Real-time score calculation with percentage breakdowns

#### 🔍 **Advanced Filtering & Search**
- **Multi-Status Filtering** - Filter by All, Pending, Approved, Rejected with live counts
- **Real-time Search** - Instant search across organization names and details
- **Advanced Filters** - Continent, score range, and website status filtering
- **Sorting Options** - Sort by name, score, status, country, or recent activity
- **Filter Persistence** - Maintains filter state across sessions

#### 🌐 **Metadata Enhancement**
- **Automatic Website Processing** - Favicon extraction and URL validation
- **Loading Progress Indicators** - Visual feedback for metadata processing
- **Website Status Validation** - Checks for valid URLs and website accessibility
- **Image Placeholder Generation** - Fallback images for organizations without websites

#### 🎨 **Design & UX**
- **Glass Morphism Aesthetic** - Modern frosted glass design with backdrop blur
- **Regional Color Theming** - Visual themes based on organization's geographic location
- **Responsive Design** - Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices
- **Smooth Animations** - CSS-based transitions and hover effects
- **Accessibility Features** - ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support

---

## Scoring System

### **13-Criteria Assessment Framework**

Organizations are evaluated across 13 key criteria, each scored 0-2:

1. **Impact Track Record** - Demonstrated environmental impact
2. **Local Legitimacy** - Community recognition and trust
3. **Transparency** - Open communication and accountability
4. **Scalability** - Potential for growth and replication
5. **Digital Presence** - Online visibility and engagement
6. **Alignment** - Mission alignment with climate goals
7. **Urgency Relevance** - Addressing critical climate issues
8. **Clear Actionable CTA** - Specific action opportunities
9. **Show Ready CTA** - Event-ready engagement options
10. **Scalable Impact** - Potential for widespread influence
11. **Accessibility** - Inclusive participation opportunities
12. **Global/Regional Fit** - Geographic relevance
13. **Volunteer Pipeline** - Volunteer recruitment and management

### **Scoring Guidelines**
- **0 Points** - Does not meet the criteria
- **1 Point** - Unclear or questionable
- **2 Points** - Clearly meets the criteria

### **Recommendations**
- **🟢 21-26 Points** - Strong Candidate (Recommended for approval)
- **🟡 13-20 Points** - Promising, Needs Follow-Up
- **🔴 0-12 Points** - Low Priority / Not Suitable

---

## Design System

#### **Glass Morphism Components**
- **btn-glass** - Glass button variants with hover effects
- **panel-glass** - Frosted glass panels with backdrop blur
- **dropdown-glass** - Beautiful glass dropdown menus
- **stained-glass** - Subtle color overlays for regional theming

#### **Regional Theming**
Organizations are visually themed based on their geographic location:
- **North America** - Blue gradient themes
- **Europe** - Purple and blue themes  
- **Asia** - Green and teal themes
- **Africa** - Orange and amber themes
- **South America** - Red and pink themes
- **Oceania** - Cyan and blue themes
- **Middle East** - Yellow and orange themes

#### **Validation System**
- **Real-time Validation** - Instant feedback as users type
- **Visual Error States** - Red borders and error messages
- **Warning States** - Yellow borders for formatting suggestions
- **Success States** - Green indicators for valid inputs
- **Character Limits** - Live character counting for text fields

### **Performance Optimizations**
- **Efficient Re-renders** - Optimized state management to prevent unnecessary updates
- **Lazy Loading** - Dynamic imports for better initial load times
- **Metadata Caching** - Intelligent caching of website metadata
- **Debounced Search** - Optimized search performance with debouncing
- **CSS-only Animations** - Hardware-accelerated animations without JavaScript frameworks

---

## Deployment

### Deploying to Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub.
2. Go to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) and import your repository.
3. Set the following environment variables in the Vercel dashboard:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
4. Click "Deploy".

> **Note:**  
> Make sure your Supabase database and authentication are fully configured before deploying.

---

### Troubleshooting

#### CSS Linting Warnings

You may see warnings like `Can't validate with unknown variable '--font-ibm-plex'` from the CSS linter.  
These are safe to ignore as long as your custom properties are defined in your CSS (e.g., in `:root`).  
The app uses proper fallback font stacks for all custom font variables.

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our contributing guidelines:

### **Current Contributors**
- [Ryan Gurley](https://github.com/gurleyryan) - Lead Developer & Architect

### **How to Contribute**
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### **Development Guidelines**
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Maintain component modularity
- Add comprehensive error handling
- Include proper TypeScript interfaces
- Test on multiple screen sizes

---

## Credits

### **Technologies**
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) - Backend-as-a-Service
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - Utility-first CSS
- [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/) - Animation library
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) - Type safety
- [Phosphor Icons](https://phosphoricons.com/) - Iconography

### **Inspiration**
- [Music Declares Emergency](https://musicdeclares.net/) - Climate action in the music industry

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPL-3.0)](LICENSE).

---

## Questions

For questions, feedback, or collaboration opportunities:

- **GitHub**: [@gurleyryan](https://github.com/gurleyryan)
- **Email**: [gurleyryan@gmail.com](mailto:gurleyryan@gmail.com)

---

## Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Core Admin Features** ✅
- [x] Organization CRUD operations
- [x] 13-criteria scoring system
- [x] Admin authentication & security
- [x] Real-time validation system

### **Phase 2: Enhanced UX** ✅
- [x] Glass morphism design system
- [x] Regional theming
- [x] Metadata enrichment
- [x] Advanced filtering & search
- [x] Responsive design
- [x] CSS-based animations

### **Phase 3: Admin Experience** ✅
- [x] Inline editing capabilities
- [x] Streamlined scoring interface
- [x] Progress tracking
- [x] Comprehensive validation
- [x] Custom dropdown components

### **Phase 4: Public Interface** 🚧
- [x] Public organization directory
- [ ] Search and discovery
- [ ] Organization profiles
- [ ] Public API endpoints

### **Phase 5: Advanced Features** 📋
- [ ] Multi-admin collaboration
- [ ] Audit trails and history
- [ ] Export capabilities (CSV, JSON)
- [ ] Integration APIs
- [ ] Bulk operations
- [ ] Analytics dashboard

Commit message:

Rebrand to AMPLIFY: Climate Org Directory
Updated app and public headers, metadata, and README to reflect the new AMPLIFY branding. Added logo and updated favicon, removed unused SVGs, and introduced new color variables. Enhanced meta tags for social sharing and clarified project description to align with the AMPLIFY program.

README.md, after:

# Climate Org Directory

[![Built with Next.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20with-Next.js-black?logo=next.js)](https://nextjs.org/)
[![Powered by Supabase](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-Supabase-green?logo=supabase)](https://supabase.com/)
[![Styled with Tailwind](https://img.shields.io/badge/Styled%20with-Tailwind%20CSS-blue?logo=tailwindcss)](https://tailwindcss.com/)
[![Status: In Development](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-deployed-green)](#)
[![AGPL v3 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL--3.0-blue)](LICENSE)
[![AMPLIFY](https://img.shields.io/badge/AMPLIFY-Climate%20Action-brightgreen?logo=leaflet&logoColor=white)](https://www.musicdeclares.net/us/campaigns/mde-us-amplify-program)

## Table of Contents

- [Description](#description)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Admin Dashboard](#admin-dashboard)
- [Scoring System](#scoring-system)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [License](#license)
- [Questions](#questions)

---

## Description

A sophisticated platform to catalog, score, and assess grassroots climate organizations using a comprehensive 13-criteria rubric. Features an enterprise-grade admin dashboard with real-time validation, automated metadata fetching, and intelligent scoring recommendations. Built to support transparent, collective, and scalable climate action aligned with Music Declares Emergency's AMPLIFY program.

> <img src="public/logo.png" alt="AMPLIFY" height="28" style="vertical-align:middle; margin-right:8px;" />
> <a href="https://www.musicdeclares.net/us/campaigns/mde-us-amplify-program" style="font-weight:bold; font-size:1.1em; vertical-align:middle;">AMPLIFY</a> empowers artists with easy-to-use tools to move their fans to take meaningful climate actions through high-impact, vetted partners.

---

## Features

### 🎯 **Core Functionality**
- **Organization Management** - Add, edit, approve/reject climate organizations with inline editing
- **Intelligent Scoring** - 13-criteria assessment with real-time recommendations and visual progress
- **Metadata Enrichment** - Automatic website favicon and metadata extraction with loading states
- **Advanced Filtering & Search** - Multi-criteria filtering, real-time search, and sorting capabilities
- **Responsive Glass Design** - Modern glass morphism UI optimized for all devices

### 🛡️ **Security & Validation**
- **Real-time Validation** - Field-level validation with visual feedback and error handling
- **Role-based Access Control** - JWT-based admin authentication with secure routing
- **Row Level Security** - Supabase RLS for comprehensive data protection
- **Input Sanitization** - Comprehensive data validation, formatting, and URL validation

### 🎨 **User Experience**
- **Glass Morphism Design** - Modern frosted glass aesthetic with backdrop blur effects
- **Smooth Animations** - CSS-based transitions and micro-interactions (Framer Motion deprecated)
- **Regional Theming** - Visual themes and colors based on organization location
- **Comprehensive Loading States** - Loading indicators, progress bars, and error handling
- **Accessibility** - ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support

---

## Tech Stack

### **Frontend**
- **Next.js** with App Router and Server Components
- **React** with TypeScript for type safety
- **Tailwind CSS** with custom glass morphism utilities
- **CSS Animations** - Custom CSS transitions and animations (Framer Motion removed)
- **Custom Hooks** - Specialized hooks for organizations, scoring, and metadata

### **Backend**
- **Supabase** - PostgreSQL database with real-time subscriptions
- **Row Level Security (RLS)** - Database-level security policies
- **Auth** - JWT-based authentication with custom claims
- **Edge Functions** - Serverless functions for metadata processing

### **Development**
- **TypeScript** - Full type safety across the application
- **ESLint & Prettier** - Code formatting and linting
- **Custom Hooks** - Reusable state management logic
- **Component Architecture** - Modular, testable components

---

## Architecture

The application follows a **clean architecture** pattern with clear separation of concerns:

```
project-root/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router
│   ├── admin/              # Admin dashboard page
│   │   ├── layout.tsx
│   │   └── page.tsx        # Admin dashboard component
│   ├── api/                # API routes and serverless functions
│   │   └── metadata/
│   │       └── route.ts
│   ├── components/         # Reusable UI components
│   │   ├── AddOrganizationModal/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── AdminHeader/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── CustomDropdown/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── Icons/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   ├── OrganizationCard/
│   │   │   └── index.tsx
│   │   └── ScoringSection/
│   │       └── index.tsx
│   ├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
│   │   ├── useOrganizations.ts
│   │   ├── useScoring.ts
│   │   └── useWebsiteMetadata.ts
│   ├── login/              # Authentication pages
│   │   └── page.tsx        # Login page component
│   ├── utils/              # Logic utilities
│   │   ├── supabase/       # Supabase client configuration
│   │   │   ├── client.ts
│   │   │   ├── middleware.ts
│   │   │   └── server.ts
│   │   ├── motion.ts
│   │   ├── orgUtils.ts
│   │   ├── scoring.ts
│   │   ├── selectOptions.ts
│   │   └── validation.ts
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── globals.css         # Global styles
│   ├── layout.tsx          # Root layout component
│   └── page.tsx            # Homepage component
├── models/                 # TypeScript interfaces
│   ├── org.ts              # Organization interface
│   └── orgWithScore.ts     # Organization with scoring interface
├── public/                 # Static assets
├── .env                    # Environment variables
├── .gitignore
├── eslint.config.mjs
├── LICENSE
├── middleware.ts           # Supabase root middleware
├── next.config.ts
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── postcss.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── tailwind.config.js
└── tsconfig.json
```

### **App Router Structure Details**

**Directory Overview:**
- `app/` – Main Next.js application code (pages, components, hooks, utilities)
- `app/utils/` – Utility functions and Supabase client config
- `models/` – TypeScript interfaces and types
- `public/` – Static assets (images, favicon, etc.)
- `.env` – Environment variables (not committed)
- `middleware.ts` – Next.js middleware for Supabase

#### **Pages & Routes**
- **`/admin`** - Admin dashboard for organization management
- **`/login`** - Authentication page for admin access

#### **API Routes**
- **`/api/metadata/*`** - Website metadata extraction

#### **Component Architecture**
- **AddOrganizationModal** - Form modal with comprehensive validation and dropdown components
- **AdminHeader** - Header with compact layout, filters, search, and real-time stats
- **CustomDropdown** - Beautiful glass dropdown components with search and animations
- **Icons** - Custom SVG and Phosphor Icons
- **OrganizationCard** - Rich cards with glass effects, inline editing, and regional theming
- **ScoringSection** - Streamlined 13-criteria scoring interface with progress tracking

#### **Custom Hooks**
- **useOrganizations** - Organization CRUD and state management
- **useScoring** - Scoring logic and calculations
- **useWebsiteMetadata** - Automatic metadata fetching and caching

#### **Utility Functions**
- **supabase/client.ts** - Supabase client configuration for client-side usage
- **supabase/middleware.ts** - Supabase middleware utilities
- **supabase/server.ts** - Supabase client configuration for server-side usage
- **motion.ts** - Animation and motion utility functions
- **orgUtils.ts** - Regional theming, color logic, and URL validation
- **scoring.ts** - Scoring criteria and recommendation logic
- **selectOptions.ts** - Dropdown and select menu options
- **validation.ts** - Field validation with real-time feedback

### **Key Architectural Principles**
- **Single Responsibility** - Each component/hook has one clear purpose
- **Separation of Concerns** - Data, UI, and business logic are separated
- **Reusability** - Components can be used across different contexts
- **Type Safety** - Comprehensive TypeScript coverage
- **Performance** - Optimized re-renders and efficient state management

---

## Installation

> ⚠️ *Production-ready for private deployment*

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/gurleyryan/MDEDB.git
   cd MDEDB
   ```

2. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. **Set up environment variables:**
   Create a `.env` file with your Supabase credentials:
   ```env
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your-supabase-url
   NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key
   ```

4. **Set up Supabase:**
   - Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com/).
   - Set up your tables, authentication, and Row Level Security (RLS) policies using the Supabase web dashboard.
   - Configure admin roles and enable real-time subscriptions as needed.
   - No SQL schema file is required—everything can be managed through the Supabase UI.

5. **Run the development server:**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Access the application:**
   - Admin dashboard: `http://localhost:3000/admin`
   - Login page: `http://localhost:3000/login`

### **Production Deployment**
- **Vercel** - Optimized for Next.js deployment
- **Supabase** - Database and authentication hosting
- **Environment Variables** - Secure credential management
- **Domain Configuration** - Custom domain setup

---

## Usage

### **Admin Interface**
- Manage organization submissions
- Assign scores using the 13-criteria rubric
- Approve, reject, or mark organizations as pending
- Real-time collaboration with other admins

> 🔐 **Admin Access**: Requires Supabase authentication with `admin` role in JWT custom claims.

---

## Admin Dashboard

The admin dashboard provides a comprehensive interface for managing climate organizations:

### **Key Features**

#### 📊 **Dashboard Overview**
- Real-time organization counts by status with color-coded badges
- Metadata loading progress with visual indicators
- Quick stats showing strong candidates (21+ score) and continent coverage
- Compact header design with optimized spacing

#### 🏢 **Organization Management**
- **Glass Card Layout** - Modern frosted glass cards with regional theming
- **Inline Editing** - Edit organization details with real-time validation and error feedback
- **Status Management** - Approve, reject, or set to pending with visual status indicators
- **Metadata Integration** - Automatic favicon extraction and website validation
- **Email Processing** - Smart email parsing and validation with multiple email support

#### 🎯 **Scoring Interface**
- **Streamlined 13-Criteria Assessment** - Clean, focused scoring interface
- **Visual Progress Tracking** - Progress bars and completion indicators
- **Smart Recommendations** - Color-coded recommendations based on total scores
- **Comments System** - Detailed notes with character limits and formatting
- **Score Summary** - Real-time score calculation with percentage breakdowns

#### 🔍 **Advanced Filtering & Search**
- **Multi-Status Filtering** - Filter by All, Pending, Approved, Rejected with live counts
- **Real-time Search** - Instant search across organization names and details
- **Advanced Filters** - Continent, score range, and website status filtering
- **Sorting Options** - Sort by name, score, status, country, or recent activity
- **Filter Persistence** - Maintains filter state across sessions

#### 🌐 **Metadata Enhancement**
- **Automatic Website Processing** - Favicon extraction and URL validation
- **Loading Progress Indicators** - Visual feedback for metadata processing
- **Website Status Validation** - Checks for valid URLs and website accessibility
- **Image Placeholder Generation** - Fallback images for organizations without websites

#### 🎨 **Design & UX**
- **Glass Morphism Aesthetic** - Modern frosted glass design with backdrop blur
- **Regional Color Theming** - Visual themes based on organization's geographic location
- **Responsive Design** - Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile devices
- **Smooth Animations** - CSS-based transitions and hover effects
- **Accessibility Features** - ARIA labels, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support

---

## Scoring System

### **13-Criteria Assessment Framework**

Organizations are evaluated across 13 key criteria, each scored 0-2:

1. **Impact Track Record** - Demonstrated environmental impact
2. **Local Legitimacy** - Community recognition and trust
3. **Transparency** - Open communication and accountability
4. **Scalability** - Potential for growth and replication
5. **Digital Presence** - Online visibility and engagement
6. **Alignment** - Mission alignment with climate goals
7. **Urgency Relevance** - Addressing critical climate issues
8. **Clear Actionable CTA** - Specific action opportunities
9. **Show Ready CTA** - Event-ready engagement options
10. **Scalable Impact** - Potential for widespread influence
11. **Accessibility** - Inclusive participation opportunities
12. **Global/Regional Fit** - Geographic relevance
13. **Volunteer Pipeline** - Volunteer recruitment and management

### **Scoring Guidelines**
- **0 Points** - Does not meet the criteria
- **1 Point** - Unclear or questionable
- **2 Points** - Clearly meets the criteria

### **Recommendations**
- **🟢 21-26 Points** - Strong Candidate (Recommended for approval)
- **🟡 13-20 Points** - Promising, Needs Follow-Up
- **🔴 0-12 Points** - Low Priority / Not Suitable

---

## Design System

#### **Glass Morphism Components**
- **btn-glass** - Glass button variants with hover effects
- **panel-glass** - Frosted glass panels with backdrop blur
- **dropdown-glass** - Beautiful glass dropdown menus
- **stained-glass** - Subtle color overlays for regional theming

#### **Regional Theming**
Organizations are visually themed based on their geographic location:
- **North America** - Blue gradient themes
- **Europe** - Purple and blue themes  
- **Asia** - Green and teal themes
- **Africa** - Orange and amber themes
- **South America** - Red and pink themes
- **Oceania** - Cyan and blue themes
- **Middle East** - Yellow and orange themes

#### **Validation System**
- **Real-time Validation** - Instant feedback as users type
- **Visual Error States** - Red borders and error messages
- **Warning States** - Yellow borders for formatting suggestions
- **Success States** - Green indicators for valid inputs
- **Character Limits** - Live character counting for text fields

### **Performance Optimizations**
- **Efficient Re-renders** - Optimized state management to prevent unnecessary updates
- **Lazy Loading** - Dynamic imports for better initial load times
- **Metadata Caching** - Intelligent caching of website metadata
- **Debounced Search** - Optimized search performance with debouncing
- **CSS-only Animations** - Hardware-accelerated animations without JavaScript frameworks

---

## Deployment

### Deploying to Vercel

1. Push your code to GitHub.
2. Go to [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) and import your repository.
3. Set the following environment variables in the Vercel dashboard:
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL`
   - `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
4. Click "Deploy".

> **Note:**  
> Make sure your Supabase database and authentication are fully configured before deploying.

---

### Troubleshooting

#### CSS Linting Warnings

You may see warnings like `Can't validate with unknown variable '--font-ibm-plex'` from the CSS linter.  
These are safe to ignore as long as your custom properties are defined in your CSS (e.g., in `:root`).  
The app uses proper fallback font stacks for all custom font variables.

---

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our contributing guidelines:

### **Current Contributors**
- [Ryan Gurley](https://github.com/gurleyryan) - Lead Developer & Architect

### **How to Contribute**
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### **Development Guidelines**
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Maintain component modularity
- Add comprehensive error handling
- Include proper TypeScript interfaces
- Test on multiple screen sizes

---

## Credits

### **Technologies**
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com/) - Backend-as-a-Service
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - Utility-first CSS
- [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/) - Animation library
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) - Type safety
- [Phosphor Icons](https://phosphoricons.com/) - Iconography

### **Inspiration**
- [Music Declares Emergency](https://musicdeclares.net/) - Climate action in the music industry

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 (AGPL-3.0)](LICENSE).

---

## Questions

For questions, feedback, or collaboration opportunities:

- **GitHub**: [@gurleyryan](https://github.com/gurleyryan)
- **Email**: [gurleyryan@gmail.com](mailto:gurleyryan@gmail.com)

---

## Roadmap

### **Phase 1: Core Admin Features** ✅
- [x] Organization CRUD operations
- [x] 13-criteria scoring system
- [x] Admin authentication & security
- [x] Real-time validation system

### **Phase 2: Enhanced UX** ✅
- [x] Glass morphism design system
- [x] Regional theming
- [x] Metadata enrichment
- [x] Advanced filtering & search
- [x] Responsive design
- [x] CSS-based animations

### **Phase 3: Admin Experience** ✅
- [x] Inline editing capabilities
- [x] Streamlined scoring interface
- [x] Progress tracking
- [x] Comprehensive validation
- [x] Custom dropdown components

### **Phase 4: Public Interface** 🚧
- [x] Public organization directory
- [ ] Search and discovery
- [ ] Organization profiles
- [ ] Public API endpoints

### **Phase 5: Advanced Features** 📋
- [ ] Multi-admin collaboration
- [ ] Audit trails and history
- [ ] Export capabilities (CSV, JSON)
- [ ] Integration APIs
- [ ] Bulk operations
- [ ] Analytics dashboard
